.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/cms-epic.md, before:

---
name: Epic
about: A epic for the CMS team.
title: "<Insert summary of epic>"
labels: Epic, Needs refining
assignees: ''

---

Once merged, will this work cause changes that CMS users will notice?
  - [ ] Y: Add the annoucements label to this issue for the PM and UX writer to review and include a design review in the ACs.
  - [ ] N: No futher action needed

## Background

### User Story or Problem Statement

<As a _____, I need _____ so I can _____.>

_or_

<Problem description. How might we _____________ ?>


### Affected users and stakeholders

* CMS_editors_of_X_product
* Developers of Y teams

<link to any existing research or data supporting this>


### Hypothesis

_A hypothesis may depend on a spike ticket to be completed._

We believe that _this_solution_ will achieve _this_outcome_. We'll know that to be true when _this measurable outcome occurs._

### Assumptions
* Tk
* Tk

(How will these assumptions be validated?)

## Acceptance Criteria
- [ ] 👀 Needs design review because the work involves changes to labels or other design elements
- [ ] 🙈 Can be implemented without consulting design team members
- [ ] Testable_Outcome_X
- [ ] Testable_Outcome_Y
- [ ] Testable_Outcome_Z

## Runbook  
This is particularly relevant for feature launches, or for making changes to the content model that require front end changes as well.
1. Step_to_get_to_production_X  
1. Step_to_get_to_production_Y
1. Step_to_get_to_production_Z


## Possible tickets to create for this epic

- [ ] Spike task, with some of the following attributes:
* Identify the baseline against which we will measure improvements
* Ideation (sketching, cross-displinary meeting of minds around how the problem may be solved)
* Analysis of the drupal landscape
* Possible implementation(s)
* Proof of concept or prototype
* UX writing discovery

- [ ] User research
- [ ] Design
- [ ] UX writing
- [ ] Usability testing (eg with a prototype or other design stimula)
- [ ] Implementation
- [ ] Documentation (What needs changing or adding to the documentation?
- [ ] Product release notes (How will we describe this feature to CMS users?)
- [ ] Training (Will any users require additional training?)
- [ ] Metrics (How will we measure any improvements)

Commit message:

[docs] VACMS-000: Minor updates to github issue templates. (#5153)
* VACMS-000: Remove access template deprecated by JSD.

* VACMS-000: Add design principles to Epic and Enhancement templates.

* VACMS-000: Various minor improvements to issue templates.

* VACMS-000: Remove cms intake form issue template.

* Update cms-enhancement.md

* Adding back "- [ ] Requires design review"

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/cms-epic.md, after:

---
name: Epic
about: A epic for the CMS team.
title: "<Insert summary of epic>"
labels: Epic, Needs refining
assignees: ''

---

## Background

### User Story or Problem Statement

<As a _____, I need _____ so I can _____.>

_or_

<Problem description. How might we _____________ ?>


### Affected users and stakeholders

* CMS_editors_of_X_product
* Developers of Y teams

<link to any existing research or data supporting this>


### Hypothesis

_A hypothesis may depend on a spike ticket to be completed._

We believe that _this_solution_ will achieve _this_outcome_. We'll know that to be true when _this measurable outcome occurs._


## Design principles

Which [CMS design principle](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/cms/cms-product-design-principles.md) is at play?
- [ ] Purpose-driven: Creates an opportunity to involve the editor community in VA’s mission and content strategy goals.
- [ ] Efficient: Removes distractions and create clear, straightforward paths to get the job done.
- [ ] Approachable: Offers friendly guidance over authoritative instruction.
- [ ] Consistent: Reduce user’s mental load by allowing them to fall back on pattern recognition to complete tasks.
- [ ] Empowering: Provide clear information to help editors make decisions about their work.

### Assumptions
* Tk
* Tk

(How will these assumptions be validated?)

## Acceptance Criteria
- [ ] 👀 Needs design review because the work involves changes to labels or other design elements
- [ ] 🙈 Can be implemented without consulting design team members
- [ ] Testable_Outcome_X
- [ ] Testable_Outcome_Y
- [ ] Testable_Outcome_Z

## Runbook
This is particularly relevant for feature launches, or for making changes to the content model that require front end changes as well.
1. Step_to_get_to_production_X
1. Step_to_get_to_production_Y
1. Step_to_get_to_production_Z
