READMES/scalability.md, before:

# Scalability Testing

In an effort to test scalability of the CMS and the front end web build content has been generated to simulate a larger database.

## Process to generate content

The `entity_clone` module was used to clone actually content to generate realistic content at scale.  The VISN2 and VISN4 facility nodes were clone several times.

Currently the tids for to filter the nodes is hard coded in the `scripts/clone.php` script.

To trigger a mass cloning call `drush scr scripts/clone.php`.  This will start a process which generate up to 10000 new nodes.

Follow up times:
* Change to drush 10 script rather than php file.
* Allow limits to be passed in via a command line
* Allow the tid to be passed in to clone.
* Run the cloning in async.

## Current generated content:

All content is stored in the public S3 bucket `dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized` in the `benchmark` folder.


| Node Count | Pages.json link | SQL dump |
|------------|-----------------|----------|
| 14228 | https://dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized.s3-us-gov-west-1.amazonaws.com/benchmark/14228-pages.json | https://dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized.s3-us-gov-west-1.amazonaws.com/benchmark/14228.sql.gz |
| 22410 | https://dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized.s3-us-gov-west-1.amazonaws.com/benchmark/22410-pages.json | https://dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized.s3-us-gov-west-1.amazonaws.com/benchmark/22410.sql.gz |
| 50658 | NA | https://dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized.s3-us-gov-west-1.amazonaws.com/benchmark/50658.sql.gz |

Commit message:

VACMS-6010 Refactor of clone code into drush job (#6063)
* Add refactor clone code

* Clone bug fixes

* Remove unused composer.json file.

* Add `vet_center_facility_health_servi` to cloned

* Fix type hint

* Fix order of event dispatching.

* Update scalability docs

* Fix php type hinting

* Use the correct interface for event dispatcher per https://www.drupal.org/node/3159012

* Update phpstand baseline

* Couple typos

* Naming this is hard.  So is spelling

* Add refactor clone code

* Clone bug fixes

* Remove unused composer.json file.

* Add `vet_center_facility_health_servi` to cloned

* Fix type hint

* Fix order of event dispatching.

* Update scalability docs

* Fix php type hinting

* Use the correct interface for event dispatcher per https://www.drupal.org/node/3159012

* Update phpstand baseline

* Naming this is hard.  So is spelling

* Couple typos

* More naming things

Co-authored-by: Nathan Douglas <ndouglas@users.noreply.github.com>

READMES/scalability.md, after:

# Scalability Testing

In an effort to test scalability of the CMS and the front end web build content has been generated to simulate a larger database.

## Process to generate content

The `entity_clone` module was used to clone actual content to generate realistic content at scale.  Content from a Section can be cloned one at a time.  The logic for what content is cloned is stored within: [docroot/modules/custom/va_gov_clone/src/Plugin/VAGov/CloneHandler] folder.

To trigger a mass cloning call:
1. Enable the `va_gov_clone` module via `drush`.  This module is hidden from the admin UI so `drush` must be used.
2. Run the drush job `drush va-gov-clone:clone-all <section_tid>`.  For example `drush va-gov-clone:clone-all 335` will clone the content for `VA Ann Arbor health care` section.  Note that this currently only allows one section and does not pick up child sections.

Follow up tasks:
* Allow limits to be passed in via a command line
* Run the cloning in async.

## Current generated content (OUTDATED 8/9/21) :

All content is stored in the public S3 bucket `dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized` in the `benchmark` folder.


| Node Count | Pages.json link | SQL dump |
|------------|-----------------|----------|
| 14228 | https://dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized.s3-us-gov-west-1.amazonaws.com/benchmark/14228-pages.json | https://dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized.s3-us-gov-west-1.amazonaws.com/benchmark/14228.sql.gz |
| 22410 | https://dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized.s3-us-gov-west-1.amazonaws.com/benchmark/22410-pages.json | https://dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized.s3-us-gov-west-1.amazonaws.com/benchmark/22410.sql.gz |
| 50658 | NA | https://dsva-vagov-prod-cms-backup-sanitized.s3-us-gov-west-1.amazonaws.com/benchmark/50658.sql.gz |
