READMES/tugboat.md, before:

## Tugboat 101

### Summary of Tugboat
Tugboat is a fast, modern Preview Environment creation tool based on containers ([Docker Swarm](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/)). Tugboat creates "Previews" which are environments that you can test proposed code changes on, login with a web shell, and view logs in the UI. It uses a concept of a "Base Preview" which is a container with a production database snapshot baked into it and ready to put your new code onto and run post-deploy operations (updatedb, config:import). This base preview image is built every day just after the PROD CMS deploy at 3:30pm ET and uses a database snapshot from just after that deployment time. Then, when you launch your PR it launches from that state and doesn't have to sync the file assets or database snapshot and will only run your code updates (`drush updatdb`) and configuration import (`drush config:import`) and then posts a GitHub comment to your pull request with links to your preview environment(s).

**Getting started with CMS Pull Request Preview Environments**
1. Log in to the Tugboat dashboard (internal) https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov. When you first log in with GitHub, you need to wait up to 2 minutes for your user account to be granted access to project(s) by a cron script that runs every minute (we are working on making this instant eventually). After you have waited the 2 minutes:
1. Click the "CMS" project then click "CMS Pull Request Environments"
1. Make a pull request
1. A "Deployment in Progress" message will appear on your GitHub Pull Request, and you will see a new environment appear simultaneiously in the Tugboat dashboard. With the dashboard you can view the preview environment system logs or launch a "terminal" to modify code and/or run drush commands etc.
1. Within 3 minutes a your new preview environment should be created and a GitHub comment will be posted with links to your environment(s) for testing, this includes a WEB (web-\*) link that builds the static site for testing. The WEB environment will take a while to build and will only be stable after all tests pass.
1. After the GitHub comment is posted with your environment links, tests will start running and the checks in the GitHub status check section will switch from "Expected" to "Pending", this test run step will take closer to 30+ minutes to complete.

**Getting started with CMS Demo Preview Environments**

1. Demo Preview Environments that are inactive for 30 days are subject to deletion. Run the "Lock" operation to prevent this from happening. 
1. Demo environments must follow this naming pattern:
   1. For VAMC Systems - `<Geographic location> health care`. E.g. Alexandria health care.
   1. For other CMS products - `<Product name>`. E.g. Resources and support
   1. For personal sandboxes - `<First name Last name>'s Sandbox`. E.g. Dave Conlon's Sandbox.
   1. Avoid creating environments with duplicate names. Check the list of existing environment while sorting by title to quickly scan the list to ensure an environment you're about to create doesn't already exist.

To create a new CMS Demo Preview Environment:

1. Login to Tugboat using GitHub - [Tugboat Projects](https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov/projects)
1. Navigate to CMS > CMS Demo Environments repository OR use a direct link [Tugboat CMS Demo Environments repository](https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov/5ffe2f4dfa1ca136135134f6)
1. Locate "Base Previews" section
   1. Scroll down to locate **Base Previews** section.
1. Clone base preview to create a new Demo Preview Environment.
   1. Locate **master** base preview.
   1. Click on **Actions > Clone**. You have created a clone of base preview environment.
1. Rename the newly created clone.
   1. Locate "master" environment in "Preview" section at the top of the page.
   1. Click "Settings".
   1. Enter new environment name .
   1. Do not change any other settings.
   1. Click "Save Configuration", then "Back to Preview".
   
You have created a new CMS Demo Preview Environment.

## Tips
1. Refresh, Rebuild and Reset operations.   
    Learn more at https://docs.tugboat.qa/building-a-preview/preview-deep-dive/how-previews-work. Below is a quick summary that might help clarify
    1. Refresh: Starts at "update" stage, then "build" stage, then "online" stage, see .tugboat/config.yml. "Refresh" is what you want to run to just get a fresh database snapshot (think (re)fresh database) and file asset import from recent production backups. ~10 minutes
    1. Rebuild: Starts at "build" stage, then "online" stage, see .tugboat/config.yml. "Rebuild" does not sync the latests database snapshot and file assets. ~3 minutes 
    1. Reset: Resets your database and code to the state it was when the Preview environment was created. <1 minute 
1. Clone: Clones the Preview Environment of the database and codebase/filesystem state at the time it was created, and not the current state. <1 minute
1. Environments are deleted on a PR merge/close by default. "Lock" the environment to prevent deletion.
1. There should only be one "Base Preview" built on master
    1. The base preview rebuilds daily at 4pm ET, just after our prod.cms.va.gov daily deployment
1. You can change the prefix on any environment, all that matters is the token in the URL, e.g. https://pr165-z82nl225gxrzbpcmfxt34th673gtwpmu.tugboat.vfs.va.gov/ will go to the same place as https://rainboxes-z82nl225gxrzbpcmfxt34th673gtwpmu.tugboat.vfs.va.gov/, they are the same. The exception is that if any URL starts with `web-*` then it will be routed to the /docroot/static folder to serve out the static website (vets-website), see .htaccess).

## Common Tugboat operations

| I want to... | Then you should... |
| :--- | :--- |
| Re-run tests on my pull request | Run the "Rebuild" action, this will run the "BUILD" stage and then run the "ONLINE" stage, which will run the tests. |
| Update the base preview image with latest Production DB snapshot | Go to dashboard and "rebuild" the base preview (master). Normally this happens every day automatically and you shouldn't need to do this, but if you do, that is how. |
| Get the latest database on my pull request environment | Run the "Refresh" command to run the "Update" stage of the "mysql" service which pulls in the latest database and files snapshots (within 15 minutes of freshness) |
| See why my deploy failed | Go to the dashboard, find your PR and click the 'php' service title, then click "build logs" |
| Lock my environment from getting deleted, like after my PR is closed. | Use the "LOCK" action |
| Manually create an environment from a branch, tag, or pull request | First push to upstream, then go to branches and click "Build Preview" |

## Less common Tugboat operations

| I want to... | Then you should... |
| :--- | :--- |
| Know why the logs are showing a previous build | Change from "current" to the latest timestamp, this is a known issue and we are working on a resolution. You can also use the Tugboat CLI tool with `tugboat log <service id>` to get the log and grep it etc. |
| Search the logs, ctrl + F in my browser is not working | This is not possible in the browser UI, you must use the Tugboat CLI tool with `tugboat log <service id>` and grep the logs that way. |
| Scroll the logs. | This is not possible in the Tugboat UI, use `tugboat log <service id>` to grep or scroll. |
| Run more advanced commands with the `tugboat` tool on the proxy | See the "Tugboat's CLI tool for software engineers" section of this document. |
| Want to get the latest .env file | Run a "Refresh" to run the "Build" stage which re-generates the .env file with latest ENV variables. |

## Tugboat config testing operations
| I want to... | Then you should... |
| :--- | :--- |
| Test out an 'init' stage change | Push your branch to upstream (can't be a fork) and go to https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov/ and click your project. Then scroll down to the "Available to Build" section, then click the "Branches" tab and then click the dropdown and click "Build with no base preview" |
| Test out an 'update' stage change | TODO |

## Tugboat's CLI tool for software engineers
1. Download at https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov/downloads and put in your $PATH
1. Copy the file from this repo to your home directory `cp .tugboat/.tugboat.yml $HOME/.tugboat.yml`
1. Generate API key at https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov/access-tokens
1. Add token to $HOME/.tugboat.yml
1. Start SOCKS connection
1. Test with `tugboat help`, use `-v` for verboseness
1. See more Tugboat CLI documentation [here](https://docs.tugboat.qa/tugboat-cli/)

## Known issues
1. The generated URLs have only been observed to change when the file .tugboat/config.yml is modified by changing the name of a defined service, or changes the default service.
1. You cannot search logs with a browser right now, it is a known issue. The alternative is to use the `tugboat` CLI tool to view logs.
1. You cannot scroll the logs while they are outputting, you can only scroll once they are done. If you want to see previous output then use the Tugboat CLI tool with `tugboat log <service id>` and scroll that way.

Commit message:

VACMS-4161: Added Demo Env Custom URL instructions.

READMES/tugboat.md, after:

# Tugboat 101

## Summary of Tugboat
Tugboat is a fast, modern Preview Environment creation tool based on containers ([Docker Swarm](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/)). Tugboat creates "Previews" which are environments that you can test proposed code changes on, login with a web shell, and view logs in the UI. It uses a concept of a "Base Preview" which is a container with a production database snapshot baked into it and ready to put your new code onto and run post-deploy operations (updatedb, config:import). This base preview image is built every day just after the PROD CMS deploy at 3:30pm ET and uses a database snapshot from just after that deployment time. Then, when you launch your PR it launches from that state and doesn't have to sync the file assets or database snapshot and will only run your code updates (`drush updatdb`) and configuration import (`drush config:import`) and then posts a GitHub comment to your pull request with links to your preview environment(s).

## Getting started with CMS Pull Request Preview Environments
1. Log in to the Tugboat dashboard (internal) https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov. When you first log in with GitHub, you need to wait up to 2 minutes for your user account to be granted access to project(s) by a cron script that runs every minute (we are working on making this instant eventually). After you have waited the 2 minutes:
1. Click the "CMS" project then click "CMS Pull Request Environments"
1. Make a pull request
1. A "Deployment in Progress" message will appear on your GitHub Pull Request, and you will see a new environment appear simultaneiously in the Tugboat dashboard. With the dashboard you can view the preview environment system logs or launch a "terminal" to modify code and/or run drush commands etc.
1. Within 3 minutes a your new preview environment should be created and a GitHub comment will be posted with links to your environment(s) for testing, this includes a WEB (web-\*) link that builds the static site for testing. The WEB environment will take a while to build and will only be stable after all tests pass.
1. After the GitHub comment is posted with your environment links, tests will start running and the checks in the GitHub status check section will switch from "Expected" to "Pending", this test run step will take closer to 30+ minutes to complete.

## Getting started with CMS Demo Preview Environments

### Maintenance and retention policy

1. Demo Preview Environments that are inactive for 30 days are subject to deletion. Run the "Lock" operation to prevent this from happening. 
1. Demo environments must follow this naming pattern:
   1. For VAMC Systems - `<Geographic location> health care`. E.g. Alexandria health care.
   1. For other CMS products - `<Product name>`. E.g. Resources and support
   1. For personal sandboxes - `<First name Last name>'s Sandbox`. E.g. Dave Conlon's Sandbox.
   1. Avoid creating environments with duplicate names. Check the list of existing environment while sorting by title to quickly scan the list to ensure an environment you're about to create doesn't already exist.


### Creating new CMS Demo Preview Environment:

1. Login to Tugboat using GitHub - [Tugboat Projects](https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov/projects)
1. Navigate to CMS > CMS Demo Environments repository OR use a direct link [Tugboat CMS Demo Environments repository](https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov/5ffe2f4dfa1ca136135134f6)
1. Locate "Base Previews" section
   1. Scroll down to locate **Base Previews** section.
1. Clone base preview to create a new Demo Preview Environment.
   1. Locate **master** base preview.
   1. Click on **Actions > Clone**. You have created a clone of base preview environment.
1. Rename the newly created clone.
   1. Locate "master" environment in "Preview" section at the top of the page.
   1. Click "Settings".
   1. Enter new environment name .
   1. Do not change any other settings.
   1. Click "Save Configuration", then "Back to Preview".
   
You have created a new CMS Demo Preview Environment.

### Human-friendly URLs for CMS Demo Preview Environments

Default URL aliases for CMS and WEB UI are not readable. Alias enhancement is tracked in [#4162](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/4162).

Example:
1. `https://cms-kewq6ooqnvg8hzjyzc1luyb4wm8bncmw.demo.cms.va.gov/`
1. `https://web-kewq6ooqnvg8hzjyzc1luyb4wm8bncmw.demo.cms.va.gov/`

Tugboat allows for manual URL customization if there is a need to share a human-redable URL with a stakeholder.

The format is {preview_type}-{custom_name}-{environment_token}.demo.cms.va.gov.
Any alphanumeric characters can be used for {custom_name}.

For example, when creating the 'Wilmington health care' demo environment, these URLs could be modified as follows:

1. `https://cms-wilmington-kewq6ooqnvg8hzjyzc1luyb4wm8bncmw.demo.cms.va.gov/`
1. `https://web-wilmington-kewq6ooqnvg8hzjyzc1luyb4wm8bncmw.demo.cms.va.gov/`


## Tips
1. Refresh, Rebuild and Reset operations.   
    Learn more at https://docs.tugboat.qa/building-a-preview/preview-deep-dive/how-previews-work. Below is a quick summary that might help clarify
    1. Refresh: Starts at "update" stage, then "build" stage, then "online" stage, see .tugboat/config.yml. "Refresh" is what you want to run to just get a fresh database snapshot (think (re)fresh database) and file asset import from recent production backups. ~10 minutes
    1. Rebuild: Starts at "build" stage, then "online" stage, see .tugboat/config.yml. "Rebuild" does not sync the latests database snapshot and file assets. ~3 minutes 
    1. Reset: Resets your database and code to the state it was when the Preview environment was created. <1 minute 
1. Clone: Clones the Preview Environment of the database and codebase/filesystem state at the time it was created, and not the current state. <1 minute
1. Environments are deleted on a PR merge/close by default. "Lock" the environment to prevent deletion.
1. There should only be one "Base Preview" built on master
    1. The base preview rebuilds daily at 4pm ET, just after our prod.cms.va.gov daily deployment
1. You can change the prefix on any environment, all that matters is the token in the URL, e.g. https://pr165-z82nl225gxrzbpcmfxt34th673gtwpmu.tugboat.vfs.va.gov/ will go to the same place as https://rainboxes-z82nl225gxrzbpcmfxt34th673gtwpmu.tugboat.vfs.va.gov/, they are the same. The exception is that if any URL starts with `web-*` then it will be routed to the /docroot/static folder to serve out the static website (vets-website), see .htaccess).

## Common Tugboat operations

| I want to... | Then you should... |
| :--- | :--- |
| Re-run tests on my pull request | Run the "Rebuild" action, this will run the "BUILD" stage and then run the "ONLINE" stage, which will run the tests. |
| Update the base preview image with latest Production DB snapshot | Go to dashboard and "rebuild" the base preview (master). Normally this happens every day automatically and you shouldn't need to do this, but if you do, that is how. |
| Get the latest database on my pull request environment | Run the "Refresh" command to run the "Update" stage of the "mysql" service which pulls in the latest database and files snapshots (within 15 minutes of freshness) |
| See why my deploy failed | Go to the dashboard, find your PR and click the 'php' service title, then click "build logs" |
| Lock my environment from getting deleted, like after my PR is closed. | Use the "LOCK" action |
| Manually create an environment from a branch, tag, or pull request | First push to upstream, then go to branches and click "Build Preview" |

## Less common Tugboat operations

| I want to... | Then you should... |
| :--- | :--- |
| Know why the logs are showing a previous build | Change from "current" to the latest timestamp, this is a known issue and we are working on a resolution. You can also use the Tugboat CLI tool with `tugboat log <service id>` to get the log and grep it etc. |
| Search the logs, ctrl + F in my browser is not working | This is not possible in the browser UI, you must use the Tugboat CLI tool with `tugboat log <service id>` and grep the logs that way. |
| Scroll the logs. | This is not possible in the Tugboat UI, use `tugboat log <service id>` to grep or scroll. |
| Run more advanced commands with the `tugboat` tool on the proxy | See the "Tugboat's CLI tool for software engineers" section of this document. |
| Want to get the latest .env file | Run a "Refresh" to run the "Build" stage which re-generates the .env file with latest ENV variables. |

## Tugboat config testing operations
| I want to... | Then you should... |
| :--- | :--- |
| Test out an 'init' stage change | Push your branch to upstream (can't be a fork) and go to https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov/ and click your project. Then scroll down to the "Available to Build" section, then click the "Branches" tab and then click the dropdown and click "Build with no base preview" |
| Test out an 'update' stage change | TODO |

## Tugboat's CLI tool for software engineers
1. Download at https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov/downloads and put in your $PATH
1. Copy the file from this repo to your home directory `cp .tugboat/.tugboat.yml $HOME/.tugboat.yml`
1. Generate API key at https://tugboat.vfs.va.gov/access-tokens
1. Add token to $HOME/.tugboat.yml
1. Start SOCKS connection
1. Test with `tugboat help`, use `-v` for verboseness
1. See more Tugboat CLI documentation [here](https://docs.tugboat.qa/tugboat-cli/)

## Known issues
1. The generated URLs have only been observed to change when the file .tugboat/config.yml is modified by changing the name of a defined service, or changes the default service.
1. You cannot search logs with a browser right now, it is a known issue. The alternative is to use the `tugboat` CLI tool to view logs.
1. You cannot scroll the logs while they are outputting, you can only scroll once they are done. If you want to see previous output then use the Tugboat CLI tool with `tugboat log <service id>` and scroll that way.
